1)What is Git?
  GIT is distributed version control system and source management (SCM) 
  system with an emphasis to handle small and large projects with speed
  and efficiency.

2)What is a Repository in a Git?
  A repository contains a directory named .git where git keeps 
  all of its matadata for the repository. The content of .git are private to git.

3)What is the command you can use to write a Commit message?
  The command that is used to write a commit message is "git commit -a", The -a
  on the command line instructs git to commit the new content of all tracked files
  that have been modified. you can use "git add <file>" before git commit -a if new 
  files need to be commited for the first time.

4)Difference between GIT and SVN
   i) Git is less preferred for handling ectremly large files or frequently changing
    binary files while SVN can handle mulitiple projects stored in the same repository.
  
  ii) Git does not support 'commits'across multiple branches or tags. Subversion allows
    the creation of folders to the at any location in the repository layout.
  iii) Gits are unchangeable, while subversion allows committers to treat a tag as a 
     branch and to create multiple revisions under a tag root.

5)What are the advantages of using GIT
  
  a) Data redundancy and replication
  b) High availablity
  c) Only one .git directory per repository
  d) Superior disk utilization and network performance.
  e) Collabration friendly
  f) Any sort of projects can use GIT

6)What languages is used in GIT
  Git is fast, and 'C' language makes this possible by reducing the overhead of
  runtimes associated with higher languages.

7)Function of 'git push' in git?
  'GIT PUSH' updates remote refs along with associated objects.

8)Why git better than subversion?
  Git is an open source version control system; it will allow you to run 'versions'
  of a project, which show thwe changes that were made to the code overtime
  also it allows you keep the backtarack if necessary and undo those changes. 
  mulitiple developers can checkout and upload changes and each change can then be
  attributed to a specific developer.

9)What is 'staging area' or 'index' in git?
  Before completing the commits, it can be formatted and reviewed in an intermdiate 
  area known as 'staging area' or 'index'.

10)What is Git stash?
  GIT stash takes the current state of working directory and index and puts in on the
  stack for later and gives you back a clean working directory. So in case if you are 
  in the middle of something and need to jump over to the other job, and at the same time you
  dont want to lose your current edits then you can use GIT stash

11)How do you know in git if a branch has been already merged in to master?
   *Git branch merged lists the branches that have been merged into the current branch
   *Git branch no merged lists the branches that have not been meerged.

12)What is the function of Git Clone?
   The git clone command creates a copy of central repository, 'cloning' is the 
   most common way used by programmers

13)Function of GIT 
   The 'git config' command is a convinient way to set configuration options for your Git
   installation. Behaviour of a repository, user info, preferences etc. can be defined through
   this command

14)what does commit object contain?
   *A set of files, representing the state of a project ata given point of time.
   *Reference to parent commit objects.
   *An SHAI name, a 40 charecter string that uniquely identifies the commit objet.

15) How to create repository in Git?
   In git, to create  repository, create a directory for the project if it does not exists, and then
   run command "git init". By running this coomand .git directory will be created in the
   project directory, the directory does not need to be empty.

16)What is head and how many heads can be created in a repository?
   A head is simply a refernce to commit object.In every repository there is a default head reffered 
   as "MASTER". A repository can contain any number of heads.

17)What is the purpose of branching in Git?
   The purpose of branching in Git is that you can create your own branch and jump between those
   branches. it will allow you to go your previous work keeping your recent work intact.

18)common pattern branching in Git? 
   The common way of creating branch in GIT is to maintain one as "main branch and create
   another branch to implement new features.The pattern is particularly useful when there are mulitiple
   developers working on a single project.

19)How can you bring a new feature in the main branch?
   To bring a new feature in the main branch, you use a command "git merge" or "git pull command".

20)What is a conflict in git?
   A conflict arises when the commit has to be merged has some change in  one place, and the current  
   commit also has the changin same place. Git will not be able to predict which change 
   should take precedence.

21)How can conflict in Git resloved?
   To resolved the conflict in Git edit the files to fix the conflicting changes and then add resolved
   files by running "git add" after that to commit the repaired merge, run "git commit".Git remembers that you
   are in the middle of a merger, so its sets the parents of the commit correctly.

22)Command used to delete A branch?
   Once your development branch is merged in to the main branch, you dont need development branch.
   to delete a branch use, the command "git branch -d[head]".

23)Another option for Merging Git?
   "Rebasing" is an alternative to merging in Git.

24)Syntax of "Rebasing" in git?
   "git rebase [new commit]".

25)Difference between Git remote and Git clone?
   'git remote add' just creates an entry in your git config that specifies a name for a particular
   URL. while 'git clone' creates a new git repository by copying and existing one located at the URL.

26)Git version control?
   *Can track history of collection of files and includes the functionality to revert the collection of files
    to another version. each version captures a snapshot of the file system at a certain point
    of time. A collection of files and their complete gistory stored in a repository.

27) Graphical Git client for linux?

   *git cola
   *Git-g 
   *Smart git
   *giggle
   *Git GUI
   *qGit

28)Subgit and why we use it?

   Subgit is a tool for smooth,stress free SVN to Git migration. Subgit is a solution for a company
   -wide migration from SVN git that is
     *It is much better than Git-SVN
     *No requirement to change the infrastructure that is already placed.
     *Allows to use all git and sub version features.
     * provides genuine stress-freee migration experience.

29)Function of 'git diff' in git?
   'git diff' shows the chnages between commits, commit and working tree etc.

30)Git status used for?
   As 'git status' shows you the differnce between the working directory and the index, it
   is helpful in understanding a git more comprehensively.
      
31)difference between  the 'git diff' and 'git status'
   'git diff' is similar to 'git status', but it shows the difference between various commits
   and also between the working directory and index.

32)Function of 'git checkout' in git:
   A 'git checkout'command is used to update directories or  specific files in your
   working tree with those from another branch without merging it in the whole branch.

33)function of 'git rm'?
   To remove the file from the  staging area and  also off your disk 'git rm' is used.

34)Function of 'git stash apply'
   When You want to continue working where you have left your work, 'git stash apply'
   command is used to bring back the saved changes on to the working directory.

35)Use of 'git log'
   To find  specific commits in your projects history by author, date, content or history
   'git log is used.

36)What is 'git add' is used for?

   'git add' adds file changes in your existing directory to index.

37)Function of  'git reset'
  
  The function of 'git reset' is to reset your index as well the working directory to the 
  state of your last commit.

38)Git is-tree?

  'git is-tree' represents a tree object including the mode and the name of each item 
   and the SHA-1 value of the blob are the tree.

39)How git instaweb used?
   'git instaweb automatically directs a web browser and runs webserver with an interface 
   in to your local repository.

40)What is 'hook' consist of in git?
   The directory consists of shell script which are activated  after the running the corresponding git commands.
   For example git will try to exccute the post commit script after you run a commit.

41)Commit messages?
  Commit message is a future of git which apperars when you commit a change.Git provides
  you a text editor where you can enter the modification made in commit.

42)how to fix broken commit?

  To fix any broken commit  you will use the command "git commit-amend". By running this 
  command, you can fix the broken commit message in the editor.

43)Why is it advisable to create an additional commit rather than amending an existing commit?
   
   *The ammend operation will destroy the state that was previously saved in a commit
    if it is the just commit message being changed then thats not an issue. But if the
    contents are being amended then chances of  eliminating something important remains more.

   *Abusing "git commit-amend" can cause a small commit to grow and acquire unrelated changes.

44)Bare repository in Git?
   To coordinate with the distributed development and developers team, especially when you are working on a
   project fro multiple computers 'bare repository is used. A bare repository comprises of
   version history of your code.
45)Few repository hosting servies?

   *pickacode
   *visual studio online

   *Git hub
   **git enterprise
   *sourceforge.net
   

